# Explanatory machine learning for sequential human teaching

## Summary

In the presence work, we explore the explanatory effects of curriculum order and the presence of machine-learned
explanations for sequential problem-solving.

We carried out an empirical study involving human participants from Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT) in a four-groups
factorial 2 x 2 design. Human participants were asked to learn an efficient sorting strategy while being presented
materials necessary for them to learn a variant of merge sort. We included data from participants who claimed to have no
background in programing, which was the main sample that we focused on in the analysis.

Explanations provided to human participants were generated offline based on the logic program learned by the
Meta-interpretive learning system, [Metagolo](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.5555/2832581.2832726).

## Use Metagolo to learn the merge sort variant

Requirement:

- SWI-Prolog

To learn merge sort without learning merge first,

```bash
swipl -s metagol/experiments/merge_sort/learn.pl -g learn_merge_sort -g halt
```

To first learn merge and then learn merge sort,

```bash
swipl -s metagol/experiments/merge_sort/learn.pl -g learn_merge_sort_in_episodes -g halt
```

The program merger was used to generate explanations for teaching human participants in the AMT experiment.

## Data processing

### Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT) data

All AMT data in csv format can be found in folder data/test/amt

Requirements:

- python 3
- pip
- pandas
- scipy
- numpy
- statsmodels
- matplotlib

### Setup processing of data from paths to experiment / trials groups

data/analysis/analysis.py

Implemented functions:

- extract data from records
- human sort trace analysis (chi-sq followed by spearman rank) against various machine traces including:
- save / show trace analysis graphs (histograms/bar graphs)
- output / print student t-test / ANOVA + tukey's statistical test results and p-values on:
    1) merge test (score/response time/No. comparisons)
    2) sort test (score/response time/No. comparisons)
- save / generate mean + error graphs on:
    1) merge test (score/response time/No. comparisons)
    2) sort test (score/response time/No. comparisons)

Note: Response time and No. comparisons are auxiliary results, and therefore not the main our focus. We do, however,
implemented ways to visualise these results (see below).

### Functions for processing data from raw records

data/analysis/process_data.py

Implemented functions:

- extract data from csv files from provided path(s)
- process raw data into readable format
- Convert of raw data for further processing and statistical tests
- produce graphs from human sort trace analysis and meta-results

### Evaluation of the closest matches of given human sort trace

data/analysis/eval_trace.py

### List of sorting algorithm implementations

data/analysis/sort_algorithms.py

Implemented sorting algorithms:

- Insertion sort (IS)
- Dictionary sort (DS)
- Bubble sort (BS)
- Quick sort (QS)
- Merge sort (MS)
- Hybrid insertion sort and dictionary sort (Hybrid)
- Some respective variants

### Example

To generate merge/sort performance test comparisons between groups, in data/analysis/analysis.py, uncomment (if
commented) the following lines:

```python
# AMT without background in programming
DATA_DIR_AMT_GROUP1 = "../test/amt/Group1/"
...
g1 = extract_from_CSV(...)
g2 = extract_from_CSV(...)
g3 = extract_from_CSV(...)
g4 = extract_from_CSV(...)
```

Given a csv file data path (groups separated by conditions and batches), extract_from_CSV from above extracts all data
from csv files into python. The full details can be shown by setting the 'show_records' flag in the 'extract_from_CSV'
function,

```python
show_records = True
```

A filter based on pre-test (MaRs-IB) accuracy pre_test_mean_acc+/-pre_test_std_acc. Precomputed mean and std are

```python
groups_mean = 0.6544112903225806
groups_std = 0.1693484674300766
```

Graphs from human sort trace analysis with chi-sq alpha set to 0.025 can be generated by setting the flags in the '
extract_from_CSV' function,

```python
trace_similarity_analysis = True
save_graphs = True
```

After extraction (when applied without filter), the following line

```python
pre_test_cross_groups_filter([g1, g2, g3, g4], ["G1", "G2", "G3", "G4"])
```

produces information about each group demographic and recomputes MaRs-IB test accuracy filter range.

Finally, statistics of meta-results can be computed by uncommenting (if commented)

```python
sort_statistical_tests([g1, g2, g3, g4], ["G1", "G2", "G3", "G4"], anova_two_way=True, tukey_two_way=False,
                       record_names=["sort_test_score"],
                       record_alias=["Performance Test Score (PS)"]
                       )
merge_statistical_tests([g1, g2, g3, g4], ["G1", "G2", "G3", "G4"], anova_two_way=False, tukey_two_way=False,
                        record_names=["merge_test_score"],
                        record_alias=["Performance Test Score (PS)"],
                        one_way_iv="EX"
                        )
```

Graphs with mean performance test score with standard error are saved to path data/results/amt.

To generate graphs for response time/No. comparisons, replace 'sort_test_score' with 'sort_test_comp' or '
sort_test_time' for sort and replace 'merge_test_score' with 'merge_test_comp' or merge_test_time'.

## Graphs and visualisations

Graphs and empirical analysis results are contained in data/results/amt.

If run analysis.py, graphs are defaulted to be saved in data/results in their respective group folder.

Relevant graphs included:

- Human sorting strategy distributions in sort training and sort performance test (Group1 - Group4)
- data/results/amt/meta_results contains comparisons of merge and sort performance test and performance comparisons of
  adapted strategies versus other strategies

## Interface

Our experiment interface is implemented using [PsychoPy](https://www.psychopy.org/). It is an open-source package for
creating free interfaces with stimulus presentation and control in Python and JavaScript.

### Deployment

To setup the interface:

- Copy directory interface into the target path
- Copy interface/materials and interface/lib into each of the four directorys (A, B, C and D)
- A learns merge before sort with explanations
- B learns merge before sort without explanations
- C learns sort before merge with explanations
- D learns sort before merge without explanations
- Set files in interface/backend to be writeable
- Set files in interface/materials to be readable
- Set all other files to be executable
- Copy interface into designated path

## Contact

For any question or query, please email [lun.ai15@imperial.ac.uk](lun.ai15@imperial.ac.uk). The authors will try to
reply as soon as available.

## References

A. Cropper and S.H. Muggleton. Learning efficient logical robot strategies involving composable objects. In Proceedings
of the 24th International Joint Conference Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI 2015), pages 3423-3429. IJCAI, 2015.

Peirce, J. W., Gray, J. R., Simpson, S., MacAskill, M. R., Höchenberger, R., Sogo, H., Kastman, E., Lindeløv, J. (2019).
PsychoPy2: experiments in behavior made easy. Behavior Research Methods. 10.3758/s13428-018-01193-y