## Procedure

- "An experimenter gave instructions before the task. Participants then completed practice items
  until three were completed correctly."
- "More than three practice items were required by 121 participants. On average, these 121
  participants needed 4.46 [...] practice items to proceed to the task and never more than 10."

- I marked the first 10 tasks from the list as "00", we can use those as practice items. I would
  suggest giving feedback (correct/incorrect) during the warm-up questions.

- "Items began with a 500 ms fixation cross, followed by a 100 ms white screen. Participants were
  then given up to 30 s to complete an item. After 25 s a clock appeared, indicating that 5 s
  remained before the next item began. An item ended when participants responded, or after 30 s had
  elapsed without response."
- "Participants completed the items for 8 minutes but were not informed of the total number of items
  and were not required, or expected, to complete 80 items in 8 min. The only time constraint stated
  was to provide a response to each item within 30 seconds. If a participant completed 80 items
  within 8 min, the items were presented again in the same order, but responses were not analysed."

- I would also suggest to put this test at the very beginning, before the introduction of Alice and
  Bob.

## File names

- "AA_task_BB_CC_D.png"
  - AA: Randomised task order, use the task in ascending order. "00" are the 10 practice tasks, so
    this number can go up to a maximum of 70.
  - BB: Original task order. I didn't notice a general increase in difficulty, so this information
    is unnecessary.
  - CC: Either "md" ("minimal difference") or "pd" ("paired difference"), refers to the answer
    option generation method used in this image. For further explanations see the validation paper
    (Chierchia, Fuhrmann et al., 2018).
  - D: The answer to the task, either "a", "b", "c" or "d".

## Instruction

"For this test, you will be shown a 3x3 grid containing a pattern of shapes. They relate to each
other in one or more of these aspects: colour, size, position and shape. Choose the one of the 4
provided options that will correctly complete the grid."
